NEXT-12625 - Add guide about adding custom data to mail templates (#160)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/plugins/content/mail/add-data-to-mails.md

# Add data to mails

## Overview

The mail templates in Shopware have access to a given set of data, e.g. the customer data, the order data, etc.
Sometimes you want add your custom entity to that data set though, so you can use this data in your mail templates as well.

This guide will teach you how to add new data to the mail templates using your plugin.

## Prerequisites

This guide is built upon our [plugin base guide](../../plugin-base-guide.md), whose namespace is going to be used in the examples
of this guide.
However, you can use those examples with any plugin, you'll just have to adjust the namespace and the directory the files
are located in.

Furthermore, you should know how to decorate a service, which is explained in this [guide](../../plugin-fundamentals/adjusting-service.md).

## Adding data via decorator

In order to add new data to the mail templates, you'll have to decorate the
[MailService](https://github.com/shopware/platform/blob/trunk/src/Core/Content/Mail/Service/MailService.php).

To be precise, you have to extend the `send` method, whose last parameter is the `$templateData`, that we want to enrich.

> So let's do that, here's an exammple decorated mail service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So let's do that, here's an example of a decorated mail service:
```

    public function __construct(AbstractMailService $mailService)
    {
        $this->mailService = $mailService;
    }

    public function getDecorated(): AbstractMailService
    {
        return $this->mailService;
    }

    public function send(array $data, Context $context, array $templateData = []): ?Email
    {
        $templateData['myCustomData'] = 'Example data';

        return $this->mailService->send($data, $context, $templateData);
    }
}
```
{% endcode %}

If you don't recognise the decoration pattern used here, make sure to have a look at our [guide about decorations](../../plugin-fundamentals/adjusting-service.md).

As always, we're passing in the original `MailService` as a constructor parameter, so we can return it in the `getDecorated` method,
as well as use the original `send` method after having adjusted the `$templateData`.

In this example, we're adding `myCustomData` to the `$templateData`, so that one should be available then.

If we add `{{ myCustomData }}` to any mail template, it should then print "Example data".
Of course you can use any kind of data here, e.g. an array of data.

### Register your decorator

> Of course you still have to register the decoration to the service container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of course you still have to register the decoration to the service container.
Beware of the `decorates` attribute of our service.
```
